README.md, before:

# TechUties AI Platform - All In One Self-Hosted AI Workflow Stack

A comprehensive, production-ready AI platform running in Docker containers with PostgreSQL, vector storage, workflow automation, and local AI model support. Optimized for both desktop and mobile environments with **maximum security** and **easy management**.

## 🎯 Quick Start

### 1. Start Services
```bash
./tu-vm.sh start
```

### 2. Enable Secure Access
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
```

### 3. Check Status
```bash
./tu-vm.sh status
```

**Note**: Tika is configured as the default PDF processor with full capabilities enabled automatically.

## 🚀 Features

### Core Services
- **Open WebUI** - Modern AI chat interface with local model support
- **n8n** - Workflow automation platform with PostgreSQL backend
- **Ollama** - Local AI model inference engine
- **PostgreSQL** - Primary database with optimized settings
- **Qdrant** - Vector database for AI embeddings
- **Redis** - Caching layer for improved performance
- **Apache Tika** - Advanced document processing and content extraction
- **MinIO** - S3-compatible object storage with web GUI

### Security & Network
- **Pi-hole** - DNS ad-blocking and network security (Primary DNS on port 53)
- **Access Control** - Secure access with easy on/off switching
- **Nginx** - Reverse proxy with SSL/TLS and security headers
- **Self-signed SSL certificates** - HTTPS encryption

### Document Processing
- **Apache Tika Default** - Full document processing with OCR and image analysis
- **Multi-format Support** - Handles 1000+ file formats including PDF, DOC, PPT, images
- **Advanced OCR** - Text extraction from scanned documents and images
- **Table Extraction** - Converts tables to structured text with layout preservation
- **Image Analysis** - Describes content in images, charts, and diagrams
- **Layout Understanding** - Maintains document structure and formatting

### Mobile Optimizations
- **Resource limits** - Battery-friendly resource management
- **Telemetry disabled** - Privacy-focused configuration
- **Health checks** - Automatic service monitoring
- **Simple control** - One script for everything

## 🔒 Security First

### Security Objective: "Secure access control with easy management" ✅

The platform implements **secure access control** with three security levels:

| Level | Description | Use Case |
|-------|-------------|----------|
| **🔒 SECURE** | Local network access (recommended) | Daily usage |
| **🔓 PUBLIC** | Access from internet | Testing/development |
| **🚫 LOCKED** | No external access | Maintenance |

### Security Features
- **Container Network Isolation**: All services in isolated Docker containers
- **Custom Network**: 172.20.0.0/16 internal network
- **Firewall Protection**: UFW-based access control
- **TLS Encryption**: HTTPS-only with strong cipher suites
- **Information Disclosure Protection**: Health endpoints secured
- **Credential Management**: Secure key generation and rotation

## 📋 Simple Control Commands

### Basic Operations
```bash
./tu-vm.sh start          # Start all services
./tu-vm.sh stop           # Stop all services
./tu-vm.sh restart        # Restart all services
./tu-vm.sh status         # Show service status
```

### Access Control
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure    # Enable secure access (recommended)
sudo ./tu-vm.sh public    # Enable public access (less secure)
sudo ./tu-vm.sh lock      # Block all external access
```

### Maintenance
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh update    # Update system and services
./tu-vm.sh backup         # Create backup
sudo ./tu-vm.sh restore file.tar.gz # Restore from backup
```

## 🔧 Access Setup

### 1. Enable Secure Access
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
```

### 2. Access Services
Access services at:
- **Landing**: `https://10.211.55.12`
- **Open WebUI**: `https://10.211.55.12` (oweb.tu.local)
- **n8n**: `https://10.211.55.12` (n8n.tu.local)
- **Pi-hole**: `https://10.211.55.12` (pihole.tu.local)
- **MinIO Console**: `https://10.211.55.12` (minio.tu.local)
- **MinIO API**: `https://10.211.55.12` (api.minio.tu.local)

## 🌐 Pi-hole DNS Configuration

### How Pi-hole Works

The VM's Pi-hole serves as the primary DNS server on port 53, providing ad-blocking and privacy protection for all DNS queries.

#### Network Flow Diagram
```
Internet
    ↓
Host Machine
    ↓ DNS queries to VM
VM (10.211.55.12)
    ↓ DNS queries to Pi-hole container
Pi-hole Container (172.20.0.16)
    ↓ Filtered/blocked queries
External DNS (1.1.1.1, 1.0.0.1)
```

### Pi-hole Access Levels

| Access Method | Port | Who Can Access | Use Case |
|---------------|------|----------------|----------|
| **Local Network** | 53 (DNS) | Host and local devices | DNS queries, ad-blocking |
| **Localhost** | 8081 (Admin) | Direct VM access | Pi-hole administration |
| **Internet** | 53 | Blocked | No public access |

### Benefits of Pi-hole DNS

#### ✅ Privacy & Security
- **Ad-blocking** for all DNS queries
- **No DNS leaks** to tracking services
- **Privacy protection** - all traffic filtered through your Pi-hole
- **Custom blocklists** for enhanced protection

#### ✅ Performance
- **Fast DNS resolution** with caching
- **Low latency** - local DNS server
- **Reliable** - direct connection to VM

### Pi-hole Configuration

The VM's Pi-hole is configured with:
- **DNS Server**: `10.211.55.12` (accessible from local network)
- **External DNS**: Cloudflare (`1.1.1.1`, `1.0.0.1`)
- **Blocking**: Enabled for ad and tracking domains
- **Access**: Local network only

## 📊 Data & Vector Features

### Open WebUI
- **Primary DB**: PostgreSQL (users, chats, settings) via `DATABASE_URL`
- **Vector DB**: Qdrant (embeddings, retrieval) via `QDRANT_URL`
- **Cache**: Redis via `REDIS_URL`
- **LLM Backend**: Ollama via `OLLAMA_BASE_URL`
- **Access**: Only via Nginx at `https://oweb.tu.local`
- **Persistence**: `postgres_data` and `qdrant_data` volumes

### n8n
- **Primary DB**: PostgreSQL schema `n8n` (workflows, credentials, executions)
- **Vector Access**: Workflows can call Qdrant directly using `QDRANT_URL`
- **Access**: Only via Nginx at `https://n8n.tu.local`
- **Persistence**: Data stored in PostgreSQL; n8n home at `n8n_data` volume

### MinIO Object Storage
- **Purpose**: Centralized file storage for all services
- **Access**: Web GUI at `https://minio.tu.local`, API at `https://api.minio.tu.local`
- **Benefits**: Scalable storage, multi-service access, S3-compatible
- **Integration**:
  - **n8n**: Uses S3 (MinIO) natively for binary data (`N8N_BINARY_DATA_MODE=s3`)
  - **Open WebUI**: No native S3 backend today — we transparently mount MinIO to the host via rclone and bind-mount that folder into Open WebUI uploads so it “just works”.
- **Persistence**: `minio_data` volume for all object storage

#### Transparent S3 Mount (Open WebUI Workaround)
- On first install, `./tu-vm.sh start` will:
  1) Create required MinIO buckets
  2) Mount MinIO buckets to host under `/mnt/minio/*` using rclone (non-interactive)
  3) Bind-mount `/mnt/minio/openwebui` to `open-webui:/app/backend/data/uploads`

- This provides S3-backed storage without modifying Open WebUI. If MinIO is not available, Open WebUI still starts; the mount is idempotent and retried on start.

## 💾 Backup & Restore

### Automatic Backups
Backups are created automatically during updates and manually:

```bash
./tu-vm.sh backup
```

### Backup Contents
- **Database**: Full PostgreSQL dump
- **Configuration**: `.env`, `docker-compose.yml`, `nginx/`, `ssl/`
- **Volumes**: PostgreSQL, Redis, Qdrant, Pi-hole data
- **Compressed**: Timestamped `.tar.gz` files

### Restore from Backup
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh restore backups/backup_20250823_143353.tar.gz
```

### Backup Location
```
backups/
├── backup_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.tar.gz
└── update_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.tar.gz
```

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites
- **Host OS**: Windows or macOS
- **VM Software**: Parallels Desktop, VirtualBox, etc.
- **VM OS**: Ubuntu Server 22.04+ (latest LTS recommended)
- **RAM**: Minimum 4GB, Recommended 8GB+
- **Storage**: 20GB+ free space
- **Docker**: Version 20.10+
- **Docker Compose**: Version 2.0+

### Network Requirements
- **Ports**: 80, 443 (public/LAN), 53 (DNS) if running Pi-hole for LAN
- **Domain**: Optional (tu.local as default)

### Installation Steps

#### 1. Update OS and Install Docker
```bash
sudo apt-get update -y && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
sudo apt-get install -y ca-certificates curl gnupg lsb-release
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(. /etc/os-release && echo $VERSION_CODENAME) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get install -y docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
sudo reboot
```

#### 2. Get the Code
```bash
git clone https://github.com/techuties/tu-vm.git
cd tu-vm
```

#### 3. Configure Environment
```bash
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings
```

#### 4. Start Services
```bash
./tu-vm.sh start
```

#### 5. Enable Secure Access
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Services Not Starting
```bash
./tu-vm.sh status
docker compose logs
```

### Can't Access Services
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
./tu-vm.sh status
```

### Backup/Restore Issues
```bash
./tu-vm.sh backup
sudo ./tu-vm.sh restore backup_file.tar.gz
```

## 🚨 Security Considerations

### Before Implementation
- ❌ Services exposed to internet
- ❌ DNS amplification risk
- ❌ Information disclosure
- ❌ No access control
- ❌ Default credentials

### After Implementation
- ✅ Services isolated from internet
- ✅ DNS protected from amplification
- ✅ Information disclosure removed
- ✅ Strong access control
- ✅ Secure credentials
- ✅ Easy on/off switching

## 📚 Documentation

### Quick References
- **Simple Guide**: [SIMPLE_GUIDE.md](SIMPLE_GUIDE.md)
- **Security Analysis**: [SECURITY_ANALYSIS.md](SECURITY_ANALYSIS.md)
- **VPN Access Control**: [VPN_ACCESS_CONTROL.md](VPN_ACCESS_CONTROL.md)
- **Backup & Restore**: [BACKUP_RESTORE.md](BACKUP_RESTORE.md)

### External References
- [Ubuntu Server](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs)
- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/)

## 🎯 Security Objective Verification

### ✅ Achieved Goals
1. **Secure Communication**: Local network access with firewall protection
2. **Internet Isolation**: Services not accessible from internet by default
3. **Easy Control**: Simple commands to switch access modes
4. **Maximum Security**: Secure access by default
5. **Flexibility**: Can enable public access when needed

### 🔒 Security Posture
- **Attack Surface**: Minimized through secure access control
- **Access Control**: Strong firewall-based access control
- **Network Security**: Isolated from internet threats
- **Monitoring**: Easy status checking and control

## 📄 Document Processing

### PDF Processing Options
The platform supports two powerful PDF processing engines:

#### **Apache Tika (Default - Recommended)**
- 🌐 **Universal** - Handles 1000+ file formats
- 🔍 **Advanced OCR** - Reads scanned documents and images
- 📊 **Table extraction** - Converts tables to structured text
- 🖼️ **Image analysis** - Describes charts, diagrams, and visual content
- 📈 **Layout understanding** - Preserves document structure and formatting
- ✅ **No reshape errors** - Robust handling of all PDF types

#### **PyMuPDF (Alternative)**
- ⚡ **Fast and lightweight** - Optimized for speed
- 🎯 **PDF-focused** - Excellent text extraction
- 💾 **Minimal resources** - Lower memory usage
- 📝 **Text-only** - No image processing capabilities

### Switching PDF Processors
```bash
# Switch to Tika (recommended - full document processing)
./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh tika

# Switch to PyMuPDF (fast, text-only)
./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh pymupdf

# Check current configuration
./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh
```

### Troubleshooting PDF Issues
If you encounter PDF processing errors:
1. **Switch to Tika**: `./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh tika`
2. **Check logs**: `docker logs ai_openwebui`
3. **Verify Tika**: `docker logs ai_tika`

## 🎉 Conclusion

The TechUties VM provides a **secure, private AI platform** with:
- **One simple script** for all operations
- **Secure access** by default
- **Easy security control** with three levels
- **Comprehensive backup/restore** system
- **Advanced document processing** with PyMuPDF and Apache Tika
- **Production-ready** architecture

**Perfect for**: Private AI development, secure automation workflows, and isolated AI research environments.

---

**Security Level**: 🔒 **HIGH** - Secure access with easy control  
**Complexity**: 🟢 **LOW** - One script for everything  
**Maintenance**: 🟢 **EASY** - Simple commands and automatic backups

Commit message:

docs: align README with actual storage design (cron sync to MinIO) and fix references

README.md, after:

# TechUties AI Platform - All In One Self-Hosted AI Workflow Stack

A comprehensive, production-ready AI platform running in Docker containers with PostgreSQL, vector storage, workflow automation, and local AI model support. Optimized for both desktop and mobile environments with **maximum security** and **easy management**.

## 🎯 Quick Start

### 1. Start Services
```bash
./tu-vm.sh start
```

### 2. Enable Secure Access
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
```

### 3. Check Status
```bash
./tu-vm.sh status
```

**Note**: Tika is configured as the default PDF processor with full capabilities enabled automatically.

## 🚀 Features

### Core Services
- **Open WebUI** - Modern AI chat interface with local model support
- **n8n** - Workflow automation platform with PostgreSQL backend
- **Ollama** - Local AI model inference engine
- **PostgreSQL** - Primary database with optimized settings
- **Qdrant** - Vector database for AI embeddings
- **Redis** - Caching layer for improved performance
- **Apache Tika** - Advanced document processing and content extraction
- **MinIO** - S3-compatible object storage with web GUI

### Security & Network
- **Pi-hole** - DNS ad-blocking and network security (Primary DNS on port 53)
- **Access Control** - Secure access with easy on/off switching
- **Nginx** - Reverse proxy with SSL/TLS and security headers
- **Self-signed SSL certificates** - HTTPS encryption

### Document Processing
- **Apache Tika Default** - Full document processing with OCR and image analysis
- **Multi-format Support** - Handles 1000+ file formats including PDF, DOC, PPT, images
- **Advanced OCR** - Text extraction from scanned documents and images
- **Table Extraction** - Converts tables to structured text with layout preservation
- **Image Analysis** - Describes content in images, charts, and diagrams
- **Layout Understanding** - Maintains document structure and formatting

### Mobile Optimizations
- **Resource limits** - Battery-friendly resource management
- **Telemetry disabled** - Privacy-focused configuration
- **Health checks** - Automatic service monitoring
- **Simple control** - One script for everything

## 🔒 Security First

### Security Objective: "Secure access control with easy management" ✅

The platform implements **secure access control** with three security levels:

| Level | Description | Use Case |
|-------|-------------|----------|
| **🔒 SECURE** | Local network access (recommended) | Daily usage |
| **🔓 PUBLIC** | Access from internet | Testing/development |
| **🚫 LOCKED** | No external access | Maintenance |

### Security Features
- **Container Network Isolation**: All services in isolated Docker containers
- **Custom Network**: 172.20.0.0/16 internal network
- **Firewall Protection**: UFW-based access control
- **TLS Encryption**: HTTPS-only with strong cipher suites
- **Information Disclosure Protection**: Health endpoints secured
- **Credential Management**: Secure key generation and rotation

## 📋 Simple Control Commands

### Basic Operations
```bash
./tu-vm.sh start          # Start all services
./tu-vm.sh stop           # Stop all services
./tu-vm.sh restart        # Restart all services
./tu-vm.sh status         # Show service status
```

### Access Control
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure    # Enable secure access (recommended)
sudo ./tu-vm.sh public    # Enable public access (less secure)
sudo ./tu-vm.sh lock      # Block all external access
```

### Maintenance
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh update    # Update system and services
./tu-vm.sh backup         # Create backup
sudo ./tu-vm.sh restore file.tar.gz # Restore from backup
```

## 🔧 Access Setup

### 1. Enable Secure Access
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
```

### 2. Access Services
Access services at:
- **Landing**: `https://10.211.55.12`
- **Open WebUI**: `https://10.211.55.12` (oweb.tu.local)
- **n8n**: `https://10.211.55.12` (n8n.tu.local)
- **Pi-hole**: `https://10.211.55.12` (pihole.tu.local)
- **MinIO Console**: `https://10.211.55.12` (minio.tu.local)
- **MinIO API**: `https://10.211.55.12` (api.minio.tu.local)

## 🌐 Pi-hole DNS Configuration

### How Pi-hole Works

The VM's Pi-hole serves as the primary DNS server on port 53, providing ad-blocking and privacy protection for all DNS queries.

#### Network Flow Diagram
```
Internet
    ↓
Host Machine
    ↓ DNS queries to VM
VM (10.211.55.12)
    ↓ DNS queries to Pi-hole container
Pi-hole Container (172.20.0.16)
    ↓ Filtered/blocked queries
External DNS (1.1.1.1, 1.0.0.1)
```

### Pi-hole Access Levels

| Access Method | Port | Who Can Access | Use Case |
|---------------|------|----------------|----------|
| **Local Network** | 53 (DNS) | Host and local devices | DNS queries, ad-blocking |
| **Localhost** | 8081 (Admin) | Direct VM access | Pi-hole administration |
| **Internet** | 53 | Blocked | No public access |

### Benefits of Pi-hole DNS

#### ✅ Privacy & Security
- **Ad-blocking** for all DNS queries
- **No DNS leaks** to tracking services
- **Privacy protection** - all traffic filtered through your Pi-hole
- **Custom blocklists** for enhanced protection

#### ✅ Performance
- **Fast DNS resolution** with caching
- **Low latency** - local DNS server
- **Reliable** - direct connection to VM

### Pi-hole Configuration

The VM's Pi-hole is configured with:
- **DNS Server**: `10.211.55.12` (accessible from local network)
- **External DNS**: Cloudflare (`1.1.1.1`, `1.0.0.1`)
- **Blocking**: Enabled for ad and tracking domains
- **Access**: Local network only

## 📊 Data & Vector Features

### Open WebUI
- **Primary DB**: PostgreSQL (users, chats, settings) via `DATABASE_URL`
- **Vector DB**: Qdrant (embeddings, retrieval) via `QDRANT_URL`
- **Cache**: Redis via `REDIS_URL`
- **LLM Backend**: Ollama via `OLLAMA_BASE_URL`
- **Access**: Only via Nginx at `https://oweb.tu.local`
- **Persistence**: `postgres_data` and `qdrant_data` volumes

### n8n
- **Primary DB**: PostgreSQL schema `n8n` (workflows, credentials, executions)
- **Vector Access**: Workflows can call Qdrant directly using `QDRANT_URL`
- **Access**: Only via Nginx at `https://n8n.tu.local`
- **Persistence**: Data stored in PostgreSQL; n8n home at `n8n_data` volume

### MinIO Object Storage
- **Purpose**: Centralized file storage for all services
- **Access**: Web GUI at `https://minio.tu.local`, API at `https://api.minio.tu.local`
- **Benefits**: Scalable storage, multi-service access, S3-compatible
- **Integration**:
  - **n8n**: Uses S3 (MinIO) natively for binary data (`N8N_BINARY_DATA_MODE=s3`)
  - **Open WebUI**: No native S3 backend today — we transparently mount MinIO to the host via rclone and bind-mount that folder into Open WebUI uploads so it “just works”.
- **Persistence**: `minio_data` volume for all object storage

#### Centralized Storage Strategy (Open WebUI)
- Open WebUI writes to its internal uploads volume.
- A single cron job syncs uploads to the MinIO bucket `openwebui-files` every 5 minutes.
- The cron job is installed automatically by `./tu-vm.sh start`.
- Optional: rclone mounts are prepared for host-side browsing under `/mnt/minio/*`.

## 💾 Backup & Restore

### Automatic Backups
Backups are created automatically during updates and manually:

```bash
./tu-vm.sh backup
```

### Backup Contents
- **Database**: Full PostgreSQL dump
- **Configuration**: `.env`, `docker-compose.yml`, `nginx/`, `ssl/`
- **Volumes**: PostgreSQL, Redis, Qdrant, Pi-hole data
- **Compressed**: Timestamped `.tar.gz` files

### Restore from Backup
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh restore backups/backup_20250823_143353.tar.gz
```

### Backup Location
```
backups/
├── backup_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.tar.gz
└── update_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.tar.gz
```

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites
- **Host OS**: Windows or macOS
- **VM Software**: Parallels Desktop, VirtualBox, etc.
- **VM OS**: Ubuntu Server 22.04+ (latest LTS recommended)
- **RAM**: Minimum 4GB, Recommended 8GB+
- **Storage**: 20GB+ free space
- **Docker**: Version 20.10+
- **Docker Compose**: Version 2.0+

### Network Requirements
- **Ports**: 80, 443 (public/LAN), 53 (DNS) if running Pi-hole for LAN
- **Domain**: Optional (tu.local as default)

### Installation Steps

#### 1. Update OS and Install Docker
```bash
sudo apt-get update -y && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
sudo apt-get install -y ca-certificates curl gnupg lsb-release
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(. /etc/os-release && echo $VERSION_CODENAME) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get install -y docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
sudo reboot
```

#### 2. Get the Code
```bash
git clone https://github.com/techuties/tu-vm.git
cd tu-vm
```

#### 3. Configure Environment
```bash
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings
```

#### 4. Start Services
```bash
./tu-vm.sh start
```

#### 5. Enable Secure Access
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Services Not Starting
```bash
./tu-vm.sh status
docker compose logs
```

### Can't Access Services
```bash
sudo ./tu-vm.sh secure
./tu-vm.sh status
```

### Backup/Restore Issues
```bash
./tu-vm.sh backup
sudo ./tu-vm.sh restore backup_file.tar.gz
```

## 🚨 Security Considerations

### Before Implementation
- ❌ Services exposed to internet
- ❌ DNS amplification risk
- ❌ Information disclosure
- ❌ No access control
- ❌ Default credentials

### After Implementation
- ✅ Services isolated from internet
- ✅ DNS protected from amplification
- ✅ Information disclosure removed
- ✅ Strong access control
- ✅ Secure credentials
- ✅ Easy on/off switching

## 📚 Documentation

### Quick References
- **Quick Reference**: [QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md)

### External References
- [Ubuntu Server](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs)
- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/)

## 🎯 Security Objective Verification

### ✅ Achieved Goals
1. **Secure Communication**: Local network access with firewall protection
2. **Internet Isolation**: Services not accessible from internet by default
3. **Easy Control**: Simple commands to switch access modes
4. **Maximum Security**: Secure access by default
5. **Flexibility**: Can enable public access when needed

### 🔒 Security Posture
- **Attack Surface**: Minimized through secure access control
- **Access Control**: Strong firewall-based access control
- **Network Security**: Isolated from internet threats
- **Monitoring**: Easy status checking and control

## 📄 Document Processing

### PDF Processing Options
The platform supports two powerful PDF processing engines:

#### **Apache Tika (Default - Recommended)**
- 🌐 **Universal** - Handles 1000+ file formats
- 🔍 **Advanced OCR** - Reads scanned documents and images
- 📊 **Table extraction** - Converts tables to structured text
- 🖼️ **Image analysis** - Describes charts, diagrams, and visual content
- 📈 **Layout understanding** - Preserves document structure and formatting
- ✅ **No reshape errors** - Robust handling of all PDF types

#### **PyMuPDF (Alternative)**
- ⚡ **Fast and lightweight** - Optimized for speed
- 🎯 **PDF-focused** - Excellent text extraction
- 💾 **Minimal resources** - Lower memory usage
- 📝 **Text-only** - No image processing capabilities

### Switching PDF Processors
```bash
# Switch to Tika (recommended - full document processing)
./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh tika

# Switch to PyMuPDF (fast, text-only)
./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh pymupdf

# Check current configuration
./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh
```

### Troubleshooting PDF Issues
If you encounter PDF processing errors:
1. **Switch to Tika**: `./scripts/switch-pdf-loader.sh tika`
2. **Check logs**: `docker logs ai_openwebui`
3. **Verify Tika**: `docker logs ai_tika`

## 🎉 Conclusion

The TechUties VM provides a **secure, private AI platform** with:
- **One simple script** for all operations
- **Secure access** by default
- **Easy security control** with three levels
- **Comprehensive backup/restore** system
- **Advanced document processing** with PyMuPDF and Apache Tika
- **Production-ready** architecture

**Perfect for**: Private AI development, secure automation workflows, and isolated AI research environments.

---

**Security Level**: 🔒 **HIGH** - Secure access with easy control  
**Complexity**: 🟢 **LOW** - One script for everything  
**Maintenance**: 🟢 **EASY** - Simple commands and automatic backups
